docs/home.md, before:

---
id: home
title: Home
---

#### Intro

Deta is a free cloud crafted with the developer and user experience at heart.

It is our mission to dramatically reduce the gap between ideas and working cloud applications.


#### Why is Deta Cloud free for ever?

We want anyone, at any age from anywhere in the world to experiment and build their ideas without worrying about limits of credit cards.

#### How are you going to make money?

We're working on a big, parallel product that we will be announcing soon. This product will be responsible for generating revenue.
Stay tuned!


#### Resources

To accomplish our mission, we offer a set of minimal-config cloud primitives:

1. **[Deta Base](#deta-base)** (beta): Instantly usable database with a feature-rich API.
2. **[Deta Micros](#deta-micros)** (beta): Deploy scalable Node & Python apps in seconds.
3. **[Deta Drive](#deta-drive)** (beta): Upload, host and serve images and files.
4. **Deta Auth** (soon): Effortless signup, login & accounts for your apps.


#### Local Development and the Deta CLI

Most developers like their local development flow. We provide a CLI that ties your local development workflow to your micro cloud, see:

- [Deta CLI](#deta-cli)


#### Support

If you have any questions, we provide a few ways to get help ASAP:

- [Getting Help](#getting-help)


### Deta Base

Deta Base is our instantly usable NoSQL database.

- [About Deta Base](base/about.md): General Information about Bases.
- [Base SDK](base/sdk.md): SDK for using a Base in Node.js and Python.
- [HTTP API](base/HTTP.md): API for interacting with a Base over HTTP.
- [Node.js Tutorial](base/node_tutorial.md): Build a micro-crud in Node.js using Base and Express.js.
- [Python Tutorial](base/py_tutorial.md): Build a micro-crud in Python using Base and Flask.


### Deta Micros

Deta Micros(servers) are a lightweight but scalable cloud runtime tied to an HTTP endpoint. Currently Node.js and Python Micros are supported.

- [About Deta Micros](micros/about.md): General Information about Micros.
- [Getting Started with Micros](micros/getting_started.md): Get your first Micro live.

### Deta Drive

Deta Drive is our easy-to-use file storage service.

- [About Deta Drive](drive/about.md): General Information about Drive.
- [Drive SDK](drive/sdk.md): SDK for using Drive in Node.js and Python.
- [HTTP API](drive/HTTP.md): API for interacting with Drive over HTTP.
- [Node.js Tutorial](drive/node_tutorial.md): Build a simple image server in Node.js using Drive.
- [Python Tutorial](drive/py_tutorial.md): Build a simple image server in Python using Drive.


### Deta CLI

The Deta CLI allows you to tie your local machine and dev setup to your own personal micro cloud.

You create and update micros using the CLI.

- [Install the Deta CLI](cli/install.md)
- [Complete CLI Reference](cli/commands.md)


### Getting Help

We have answered some [FAQs](faqs.md) in these docs, but we are here to help and would love to hear what you think!

If you have any questions or feedback, you can reach us:
- [Discord](https://go.deta.dev/discord)
- [hello@deta.sh](mailto:hello@deta.sh)

### Reporting Abuse

If you detect any kind of fraudulent, abusive and/or malicious content hosted on Deta, please report the site(s) by sending an email to us at [abuse@deta.sh](mailto:abuse@deta.sh). 

We review each report manually.

Commit message:

docs/home: add github discussions link

docs/home.md, after:

---
id: home
title: Home
---

#### Intro

Deta is a free cloud crafted with the developer and user experience at heart.

It is our mission to dramatically reduce the gap between ideas and working cloud applications.


#### Why is Deta Cloud free for ever?

We want anyone, at any age from anywhere in the world to experiment and build their ideas without worrying about limits of credit cards.

#### How are you going to make money?

We're working on a big, parallel product that we will be announcing soon. This product will be responsible for generating revenue.
Stay tuned!


#### Resources

To accomplish our mission, we offer a set of minimal-config cloud primitives:

1. **[Deta Base](#deta-base)** (beta): Instantly usable database with a feature-rich API.
2. **[Deta Micros](#deta-micros)** (beta): Deploy scalable Node & Python apps in seconds.
3. **[Deta Drive](#deta-drive)** (beta): Upload, host and serve images and files.
4. **Deta Auth** (soon): Effortless signup, login & accounts for your apps.


#### Local Development and the Deta CLI

Most developers like their local development flow. We provide a CLI that ties your local development workflow to your micro cloud, see:

- [Deta CLI](#deta-cli)


#### Support

If you have any questions, we provide a few ways to get help ASAP:

- [Getting Help](#getting-help)


### Deta Base

Deta Base is our instantly usable NoSQL database.

- [About Deta Base](base/about.md): General Information about Bases.
- [Base SDK](base/sdk.md): SDK for using a Base in Node.js and Python.
- [HTTP API](base/HTTP.md): API for interacting with a Base over HTTP.
- [Node.js Tutorial](base/node_tutorial.md): Build a micro-crud in Node.js using Base and Express.js.
- [Python Tutorial](base/py_tutorial.md): Build a micro-crud in Python using Base and Flask.


### Deta Micros

Deta Micros(servers) are a lightweight but scalable cloud runtime tied to an HTTP endpoint. Currently Node.js and Python Micros are supported.

- [About Deta Micros](micros/about.md): General Information about Micros.
- [Getting Started with Micros](micros/getting_started.md): Get your first Micro live.

### Deta Drive

Deta Drive is our easy-to-use file storage service.

- [About Deta Drive](drive/about.md): General Information about Drive.
- [Drive SDK](drive/sdk.md): SDK for using Drive in Node.js and Python.
- [HTTP API](drive/HTTP.md): API for interacting with Drive over HTTP.
- [Node.js Tutorial](drive/node_tutorial.md): Build a simple image server in Node.js using Drive.
- [Python Tutorial](drive/py_tutorial.md): Build a simple image server in Python using Drive.


### Deta CLI

The Deta CLI allows you to tie your local machine and dev setup to your own personal micro cloud.

You create and update micros using the CLI.

- [Install the Deta CLI](cli/install.md)
- [Complete CLI Reference](cli/commands.md)


### Getting Help

We have answered some [General FAQs](faqs.md) and [FAQs on Micros](micros/faqs.md) in these docs, but we are here to help and would love to hear what you think!

If you have any questions or feedback, you can reach us:

- [Github Discussions](https://github.com/orgs/deta/discussions)
- [Discord](https://go.deta.dev/discord)
- [hello@deta.sh](mailto:hello@deta.sh)

### Reporting Abuse

If you detect any kind of fraudulent, abusive and/or malicious content hosted on Deta, please report the site(s) by sending an email to us at [abuse@deta.sh](mailto:abuse@deta.sh). 

We review each report manually.
